>> Jerome Hardaway: Mock Interviews,
your friends,
your user groups with platforms
like Pramp, Interview.io,
they're good, great simulating
real interview conditions.
If you're in that front-end master's
discord ask them want to hey,
do some mock on me.
Ask Mark, hey, Mark, is there a way we
could do like a mock interview Mondays and
you can, we can all practice mocking
reviews, maybe that'd be a thing that your
instructors would like to come and
do with us as well something like that.
Community engagement, you mark, if you see
this mocking interview, Mondays I'm down.
And I'm pretty sure other instructors
should be down for that too, right?
So, but you have to,
I cannot stress this enough.
The market's too wild out here.
It's too volatile to go in these jobs,
blind and
unprepared on any level,
especially the technical level.
The technical level is we see this
as where the cortisol levels of
the of people spike the most because this
is the part people drill the least, right?
Everyone, even today how many probably
know times I've been asked about and
are brought up in the chat
about the projects, but
no one talks about
the interview prep component?
Or they don't talk enough about it or
they're afraid to drill that
come component because
this is not the fun part.
This is not the cute part.
This is the stressful part where somebody
you don't know is essentially judging
the things that are coming out and other
your fingers then you have that, right?
And that's nerve-racking, right?
I don't know this person.
My anxieties are high or
high level of probably should
have took a shot before this.
I don't know what, how to handle this.
But now this person,
I just had this person make an audible
grunt when I did a wrote a line of code.
I don't like that, right?
[LAUGH] they just sighed.
Are you rolling your eyes
while I'm writing code?
No, don't do that.
I need positive reinforcement right now,
right?
So it's scary.
And people don't do that enough,
but we have to.
We have to do mock interviews.
We have to do the, especially now.
You have to practice that calling to the
HR cuz you have to practice controlling
those inflections and those us and owns.
Because there are things, like I said,
false positives, those tools they
might not always pick up if something
that's just like a lapse of judgment or
you say normal, it's a space for
your brain to think.
Stuff like that.
They might say, you don't know the subject
based on how many times you say, or
something like that.
We have to practice these things.
It's scary.
You have to start practicing that.
You have to start practicing.
The interview prep when it
comes to the technical,
a lot more, 'cuz we have to start
thinking about performance now.
Not just solving for X.
You have to solve for X in a manner
that while it's still readable,
it's also performant.
And you're that sucks because
performing code usually isn't readable.
[LAUGH] So now I got to figure out
where to do the trade offs at.
And you gotta be able to
explain your trade offs.
So you have to practice that stuff.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Feedback,
now, legally,
they tend to not give you feedback
at companies cuz they don't
want you to go come back and say,
you were discriminated against.
So they don't tend to get feedback
on there, but practice sessions,
you get feedback, you get so
much feedback till it hurts.
I want you when it comes to the goal
of being better, feedback is a gift.
When it comes to practice,
I like getting feedback and practice.
Work not so much.
This is a good job I don't
like feedback at work.
But if it's practice,
I love feedback at during practice, right?
Because you learn a lot.
Well, when I was boxing,
we had a saying about easy training,
hard fight, hard training easy fight.
It's the same way.
If you make the experience of
getting the job hard on yourself,
the actual getting
the job is gonna be easy.
If you make the experience of
getting the job easy on yourself,
the actual experience is gonna be hard,
right?
You have to do these things.
You have to get this feedback.
You have to start in-boxing was
pretty easy you get the feedback
pretty immediately a punch in the face,
your hand was down.
I hit you in the nose cuz you
didn't have your hands up.
Take it's not so much so
you have to do these you have to be
intentional getting your feedback, right?
And add it to, I'm sorry, Excel sheet.
I don't know what I was about
to say express, excel combined.
I use notion, I don't use the word I
don't know why I said that in all and
I had my feedback there I keep and
I'm like, how do I improve my game.
Consistency, you don't have
do the staff everyday, but
you need to be doing at least every week.
I spent 90 minutes a week
doing just code challenges.
I spend 90 minutes a week drilling
down my verbal interview prep.
I have one of my friends no ill or
I have somebody one of my board members
if you have a troop hey I want to go
through my verbal interview prep here's,
know some questions.
We're gonna generate these questions on
a ChatGPT, here you go, you ask these and
we'll go from there, right?
I do this because I wanna
practice what I preach, right?
And like I say,
I'm obsessive with the training of
getting a job cuz of how,
I know that part is the second
most stressful part is
the 9030 to 3060 90 F the job.
But the most stressful part
is getting to the job right,
getting that getting
through the interview.
So we have to be the only way you mitigate
that stress those cortisol levels is by
practice is about being consistent
with your practice the same way.
If I go out there and I try to run
a mile with Mark today, I'm gonna die.
I'm just gonna be honest.
Y'all might not ever see me again.
This will be the last [LAUGH] get
the software engineer job course ever.
However, if I practice running a mile
three times a week and I run with Mark.
After six weeks of it, you know what,
we'll have a version five.
It'll be cool.
So that is the same we do working out.
It's the same level you got
to practice being consistent.
So by doing this, focusing on company
specific problems, when I say that, I
think one of the things that we're having
right now is people are just applying for
jobs and they're not being
intentional with the application.
So they're just, I'm applying all
these jobs and I get it, all right?
Once you get that application,
are you focusing on what CS
fundamental would apply to that job?
That is what I want you to really look at,
all right?
Now that I'm here, what are the CS
fundamentals that will apply to this job
to that job to this job over here that
I'm gonna be gonna code challenges.
Let me start there and then work my way
backwards on code challenges, right?
Let me find through CS fundamentals.
They matter in this type of company in
this industry, then work my way back,
right?
This approach, it's cuts down time.
That's the first thing that I picked up.
It helps me focus on the things that
matter to this company fast, right,
when it comes to performance.
And then it helps me get
the practical application concepts.
I'm a very practical person.
I don't like theory at all,
I think military drill that out of me.
Theory, bad things happen when you
theorize in the military, right?
So you're always thinking
about the practicality of it.
The same concept when it comes
to learning how to code.
I've always been practical when
it comes to color, I hate theory.
Let me put this on the screen and
let's see this thing work in action.
It actually works.
Cool, now I'm gonna use this, right?
So adding that practical application to
computer science gonna help it stick more,
right?
But it also will demonstrate to
interviewers that you know that you
actually you care about their business.
You're looking to have the skills
that be relative to their business,
you're thinking.
One thing I always think about
when I would go into a job or
going to interview is what
is the line of business?
What is the business revenue lie of
this company and what skills do I have,
how do I apply that directly to that,
right?
I don't talk about artificial
Intelligence I'm gonna see how can I apply
this to that?
How can I apply this to get out the way,
right?
No one wants any more gen AI things.
This is all played out.
This is cool.
Well, can we do a predictive analytics?
Can we do sentiment analysis?
Can we do computer vision?
Can we do I-C-R-O-C-R?
Can we do any of that?
Right, that is what I started
thinking about, right?
How do I help with
the business revenue lie?
And that's what I want you to
start thinking of when you're
going through these
processes of getting a job.